Classify v5.0.0 changelog and improve migration guide (#4653)
OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts: CHANGELOG.md

- Removed the `override` specifier from functions that only override a single interface function. ([#4315](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4315))
- Switched to using explicit Solidity import statements. Some previously available symbols may now have to be separately imported. ([#4399](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4399))
- `Governor`, `Initializable`, and `UUPSUpgradeable`: Use internal functions in modifiers to optimize bytecode size. ([#4472](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4472))
- Upgradeable contracts now use namespaced storage (EIP-7201). ([#4534](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4534))
- Upgradeable contracts no longer transpile interfaces and libraries. ([#4628](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4628))

#### Access

> - `AccessManager`: Added a new contract for managing access control of complex systems in a consolidated location. ([#4121](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4121))
> - `AccessControl`: Added a boolean return value to the internal `_grantRole` and `_revokeRole` functions indicating whether the role was granted or revoked. ([#4241](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4241))
> - `Ownable`: Added an `initialOwner` parameter to the constructor, making the ownership initialization explicit. ([#4267](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4267))
> - `access`: Moved `AccessControl` extensions to a dedicated directory. ([#4359](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4359))
> - `Ownable`: Prevent using address(0) as the initial owner. ([#4531](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4531))
> - `AccessManager`, `AccessManaged`, `GovernorTimelockAccess`: Ensure that calldata shorter than 4 bytes is not padded to 4 bytes. ([#4624](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4624))
> - `AccessManager`: Use named return parameters in functions that return multiple values. ([#4624](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4624))
> - `AccessManager`: Make `schedule` and `execute` more conservative when delay is 0. ([#4644](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4644))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Ownable`: Added an `initialOwner` parameter to the constructor, making the ownership initialization explicit. ([#4267](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4267))
- `Ownable`: Prevent using address(0) as the initial owner. ([#4531](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4531))
- `AccessControl`: Added a boolean return value to the internal `_grantRole` and `_revokeRole` functions indicating whether the role was granted or revoked. ([#4241](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4241))
- `access`: Moved `AccessControl` extensions to a dedicated directory. ([#4359](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4359))
- `AccessManager`: Added a new contract for managing access control of complex systems in a consolidated location. ([#4121](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4121))
- `AccessManager`, `AccessManaged`, `GovernorTimelockAccess`: Ensure that calldata shorter than 4 bytes is not padded to 4 bytes. ([#4624](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4624))
- `AccessManager`: Use named return parameters in functions that return multiple values. ([#4624](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4624))
- `AccessManager`: Make `schedule` and `execute` more conservative when delay is 0. ([#4644](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4644))
```

#### Finance

- `VestingWallet`: Fixed revert during 1 second time window when duration is 0. ([#4502](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4502))
- `VestingWallet`: Use `Ownable` instead of an immutable `beneficiary`. ([#4508](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4508))

#### Governance

> - `TimelockController`: Changed the role architecture to use `DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE` as the admin for all roles, instead of the bespoke `TIMELOCK_ADMIN_ROLE` that was used previously. This aligns with the general recommendation for `AccessControl` and makes the addition of new roles easier. Accordingly, the `admin` parameter and timelock will now be granted `DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE` instead of `TIMELOCK_ADMIN_ROLE`. ([#3799](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3799))
> - `GovernorTimelockControl`: Clean up timelock id on execution for gas refund. ([#4118](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4118))
> - `Governor`: Optimized use of storage for proposal data ([#4268](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4268))
> - `Governor`: Added validation in ERC1155 and ERC721 receiver hooks to ensure Governor is the executor. ([#4314](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4314))
> - `TimelockController`: Added a state getter that returns an `OperationState` enum. ([#4358](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4358))
> - `Governor`: Refactored internals to implement common queuing logic in the core module of the Governor. Added `queue` and `_queueOperations` functions that act at different levels. Modules that implement queuing via timelocks are expected to override `_queueOperations` to implement the timelock-specific logic. Added `_executeOperations` as the equivalent for execution. ([#4360](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4360))
> - `GovernorStorage`: Added a new governor extension that stores the proposal details in storage, with an interface that operates on `proposalId`, as well as proposal enumerability. This replaces the old `GovernorCompatibilityBravo` module. ([#4360](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4360))
> - `Governor`: Added `voter` and `nonce` parameters in signed ballots, to avoid forging signatures for random addresses, prevent signature replay, and allow invalidating signatures. Add `voter` as a new parameter in the `castVoteBySig` and `castVoteWithReasonAndParamsBySig` functions. ([#4378](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4378))
> - `Governor`: Added support for casting votes with ERC-1271 signatures by using a `bytes memory signature` instead of `r`, `s` and `v` arguments in the `castVoteBySig` and `castVoteWithReasonAndParamsBySig` functions. ([#4418](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4418))
> - `GovernorTimelockControl`: Added the Governor instance address as part of the TimelockController operation `salt` to avoid operation id collisions between governors using the same TimelockController. ([#4432](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4432))
> - `GovernorTimelockAccess`: Added a module to connect a governor with an instance of `AccessManager`, allowing the governor to make calls that are delay-restricted by the manager using the normal `queue` workflow. ([#4523](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4523))
> - `Votes`: Use Trace208 for checkpoints. This enables EIP-6372 clock support for keys but reduces the max supported voting power to uint208. ([#4539](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4539))
> - `Governor`: Added a mechanism to restrict the address of the proposer using a suffix in the description.

Reviewer: I would regroup the entries by the contract they affect (first governor, then governor extensions, then timelockcontroller, then utils)
```suggestion
- `Governor`: Optimized use of storage for proposal data ([#4268](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4268))
- `Governor`: Added validation in ERC1155 and ERC721 receiver hooks to ensure Governor is the executor. ([#4314](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4314))
- `Governor`: Refactored internals to implement common queuing logic in the core module of the Governor. Added `queue` and `_queueOperations` functions that act at different levels. Modules that implement queuing via timelocks are expected to override `_queueOperations` to implement the timelock-specific logic. Added `_executeOperations` as the equivalent for execution. ([#4360](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4360))
- `Governor`: Added `voter` and `nonce` parameters in signed ballots, to avoid forging signatures for random addresses, prevent signature replay, and allow invalidating signatures. Add `voter` as a new parameter in the `castVoteBySig` and `castVoteWithReasonAndParamsBySig` functions. ([#4378](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4378))
- `Governor`: Added support for casting votes with ERC-1271 signatures by using a `bytes memory signature` instead of `r`, `s` and `v` arguments in the `castVoteBySig` and `castVoteWithReasonAndParamsBySig` functions. ([#4418](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4418))
- `Governor`: Added a mechanism to restrict the address of the proposer using a suffix in the description.
- `GovernorStorage`: Added a new governor extension that stores the proposal details in storage, with an interface that operates on `proposalId`, as well as proposal enumerability. This replaces the old `GovernorCompatibilityBravo` module. ([#4360](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4360))
- `GovernorTimelockAccess`: Added a module to connect a governor with an instance of `AccessManager`, allowing the governor to make calls that are delay-restricted by the manager using the normal `queue` workflow. ([#4523](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4523))
- `GovernorTimelockControl`: Clean up timelock id on execution for gas refund. ([#4118](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4118))
- `GovernorTimelockControl`: Added the Governor instance address as part of the TimelockController operation `salt` to avoid operation id collisions between governors using the same TimelockController. ([#4432](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4432))
- `TimelockController`: Changed the role architecture to use `DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE` as the admin for all roles, instead of the bespoke `TIMELOCK_ADMIN_ROLE` that was used previously. This aligns with the general recommendation for `AccessControl` and makes the addition of new roles easier. Accordingly, the `admin` parameter and timelock will now be granted `DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE` instead of `TIMELOCK_ADMIN_ROLE`. ([#3799](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3799))
- `TimelockController`: Added a state getter that returns an `OperationState` enum. ([#4358](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4358))
- `Votes`: Use Trace208 for checkpoints. This enables EIP-6372 clock support for keys but reduces the max supported voting power to uint208. ([#4539](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4539))
```

- `BeaconProxy`: Reject value in initialization unless a payable function is explicitly invoked. ([#4382](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4382))
- `Proxy`: Removed redundant `receive` function. ([#4434](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4434))
- `BeaconProxy`: Use an immutable variable to store the address of the beacon. It is no longer possible for a `BeaconProxy` to upgrade by changing to another beacon. ([#4435](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4435))
- `Initializable`: Use the namespaced storage pattern to avoid putting critical variables in slot 0. Allow reinitializer versions greater than 256. ([#4460](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4460))
- `Initializable`: Use intermediate variables to improve readability. ([#4576](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4576))

#### Token

> - `ERC20Votes`: Changed internal vote accounting to reusable `Votes` module previously used by `ERC721Votes`. Removed implicit `ERC20Permit` inheritance. Note that the `DOMAIN_SEPARATOR` getter was previously guaranteed to be available for `ERC20Votes` contracts, but is no longer available unless `ERC20Permit` is explicitly used; ERC-5267 support is included in `ERC20Votes` with `EIP712` and is recommended as an alternative. ([#3816](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3816))
> - `ERC20`, `ERC721`, `ERC1155`: Deleted `_beforeTokenTransfer` and `_afterTokenTransfer` hooks, added a new internal `_update` function for customizations, and refactored all extensions using those hooks to use `_update` instead. ([#3838](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3838), [#3876](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3876), [#4377](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4377))
> - `ERC1155Supply`: Added a `totalSupply()` function that returns the total amount of token circulating, this change will restrict the total tokens minted across all ids to 2**256-1 . ([#3962](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3962))
> - `ERC721Consecutive`: Added a `_firstConsecutiveId` internal function that can be overridden to change the id of the first token minted through `_mintConsecutive`. ([#4097](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4097))
> - `ERC1155`: Optimized array allocation. ([#4196](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4196))
> - `SafeERC20`: Refactored `safeDecreaseAllowance` and `safeIncreaseAllowance` to support USDT-like tokens. ([#4260](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4260))
> - `ERC1155`: Removed check for address zero in `balanceOf`. ([#4263](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4263))
> - `ERC1155`: Optimized array accesses by skipping bounds checking when unnecessary. ([#4300](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4300))
> - `ERC1155`: Bubble errors triggered in the `onERC1155Received` and `onERC1155BatchReceived` hooks. ([#4314](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4314))
> - `ERC1967Utils`: Refactor the `ERC1967Upgrade` abstract contract as a library. ([#4325](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4325))
> - `ERC20`: Removed `Approval` event previously emitted in `transferFrom` to indicate that part of the allowance was consumed. With this change, allowances are no longer reconstructible from events. See the code for guidelines on how to re-enable this event if needed. ([#4370](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4370))
> - `ERC721`: `_approve` no longer allows approving the owner of the tokenId. ([#4377](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/issues/4377)) `_setApprovalForAll` no longer allows setting address(0) as an operator. ([#4377](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4377))
> - `ERC1155Receiver`: Removed in favor of `ERC1155Holder`. ([#4450](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4450))
> - `ERC721URIStorage`: Allow setting the token URI prior to minting. ([#4559](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4559))
> - `ERC721URIStorage`, `ERC721Royalty`: Stop resetting token-specific URI and royalties when burning. ([#4561](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4561))
> - `ERC721`: Renamed `_requireMinted` to `_requireOwned` and added a return value with the current owner. Implemented `ownerOf` in terms of `_requireOwned`. ([#4566](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4566))
> - `SafeERC20`: Removed `safePermit` in favor of documentation-only `permit` recommendations. Based on recommendations from @trust1995 ([#4582](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4582))
> - `ERC20`: Removed the non-standard `increaseAllowance` and `decreaseAllowance` functions. ([#4585](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4585))

Reviewer: (same grouping + ERC1967Utils should not be here, its a duplicate of line 103)

```suggestion
- `ERC20`, `ERC721`, `ERC1155`: Deleted `_beforeTokenTransfer` and `_afterTokenTransfer` hooks, added a new internal `_update` function for customizations, and refactored all extensions using those hooks to use `_update` instead. ([#3838](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3838), [#3876](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3876), [#4377](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4377))
- `ERC20`: Removed `Approval` event previously emitted in `transferFrom` to indicate that part of the allowance was consumed. With this change, allowances are no longer reconstructible from events. See the code for guidelines on how to re-enable this event if needed. ([#4370](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4370))
- `ERC20`: Removed the non-standard `increaseAllowance` and `decreaseAllowance` functions. ([#4585](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4585))
- `ERC20Votes`: Changed internal vote accounting to reusable `Votes` module previously used by `ERC721Votes`. Removed implicit `ERC20Permit` inheritance. Note that the `DOMAIN_SEPARATOR` getter was previously guaranteed to be available for `ERC20Votes` contracts, but is no longer available unless `ERC20Permit` is explicitly used; ERC-5267 support is included in `ERC20Votes` with `EIP712` and is recommended as an alternative. ([#3816](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3816))
- `SafeERC20`: Refactored `safeDecreaseAllowance` and `safeIncreaseAllowance` to support USDT-like tokens. ([#4260](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4260))
- `SafeERC20`: Removed `safePermit` in favor of documentation-only `permit` recommendations. Based on recommendations from @trust1995 ([#4582](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4582))
- `ERC721`: `_approve` no longer allows approving the owner of the tokenId. ([#4377](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/issues/4377)) `_setApprovalForAll` no longer allows setting address(0) as an operator. ([#4377](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4377))
- `ERC721`: Renamed `_requireMinted` to `_requireOwned` and added a return value with the current owner. Implemented `ownerOf` in terms of `_requireOwned`. ([#4566](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4566))
- `ERC721Consecutive`: Added a `_firstConsecutiveId` internal function that can be overridden to change the id of the first token minted through `_mintConsecutive`. ([#4097](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4097))
- `ERC721URIStorage`: Allow setting the token URI prior to minting. ([#4559](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4559))
- `ERC721URIStorage`, `ERC721Royalty`: Stop resetting token-specific URI and royalties when burning. ([#4561](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4561))
- `ERC1155`: Optimized array allocation. ([#4196](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4196))
- `ERC1155`: Removed check for address zero in `balanceOf`. ([#4263](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4263))
- `ERC1155`: Optimized array accesses by skipping bounds checking when unnecessary. ([#4300](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4300))
- `ERC1155`: Bubble errors triggered in the `onERC1155Received` and `onERC1155BatchReceived` hooks. ([#4314](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4314))
- `ERC1155Supply`: Added a `totalSupply()` function that returns the total amount of token circulating, this change will restrict the total tokens minted across all ids to 2**256-1 . ([#3962](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3962))
- `ERC1155Receiver`: Removed in favor of `ERC1155Holder`. ([#4450](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4450))
```

#### Utils

> - `Nonces`: Added a new contract to keep track of user nonces. Used for signatures in `ERC20Permit`, `ERC20Votes`, and `ERC721Votes`. ([#3816](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3816))
> - `DoubleEndedQueue`: Refactored internal structure to use `uint128` instead of `int128`. This has no effect on the library interface. ([#4150](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4150))
> - Optimized `Strings.equal` ([#4262](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4262))
> - `Checkpoints`: Library moved from `utils` to `utils/structs` ([#4275](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4275))
> - `Arrays`: Added `unsafeMemoryAccess` helpers to read from a memory array without checking the length. ([#4300](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4300))
> - `ECDSA`: Use unchecked arithmetic for the `tryRecover` function that receives the `r` and `vs` short-signature fields separately. ([#4301](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4301))
> - `EIP712`: Added internal getters for the name and version strings ([#4303](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4303))
> - `Strings`: Renamed `toString(int256)` to `toStringSigned(int256)`. ([#4330](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4330))
> - `Math`: Makes `ceilDiv` to revert on 0 division even if the numerator is 0 ([#4348](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4348))
> - `MessageHashUtils`: Added a new library for creating message digest to be used along with signing or recovery such as ECDSA or ERC-1271. These functions are moved from the `ECDSA` library. ([#4430](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4430))
> - `Arrays`: Optimized `findUpperBound` by removing redundant SLOAD. ([#4442](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4442))
> - `Math`: Renamed members of `Rounding` enum, and added a new rounding mode for "away from zero". ([#4455](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4455))
> - `Math`: Optimized stack operations in `mulDiv`. ([#4494](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4494))
> - `Address`: Removed the ability to customize error messages. A common custom error is always used if the underlying revert reason cannot be bubbled up. ([#4502](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4502))
> - `ReentrancyGuard`, `Pausable`: Moved to `utils` directory. ([#4551](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4551))
> - `MerkleProof`: Use custom error to report invalid multiproof instead of reverting with overflow panic. ([#4564](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4564))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Address`: Removed the ability to customize error messages. A common custom error is always used if the underlying revert reason cannot be bubbled up. ([#4502](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4502))
- `Arrays`: Added `unsafeMemoryAccess` helpers to read from a memory array without checking the length. ([#4300](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4300))
- `Arrays`: Optimized `findUpperBound` by removing redundant SLOAD. ([#4442](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4442))
- `Checkpoints`: Library moved from `utils` to `utils/structs` ([#4275](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4275))
- `DoubleEndedQueue`: Refactored internal structure to use `uint128` instead of `int128`. This has no effect on the library interface. ([#4150](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4150))
- `ECDSA`: Use unchecked arithmetic for the `tryRecover` function that receives the `r` and `vs` short-signature fields separately. ([#4301](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4301))
- `EIP712`: Added internal getters for the name and version strings ([#4303](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4303))
- `Math`: Makes `ceilDiv` to revert on 0 division even if the numerator is 0 ([#4348](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4348))
- `Math`: Optimized stack operations in `mulDiv`. ([#4494](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4494))
- `Math`: Renamed members of `Rounding` enum, and added a new rounding mode for "away from zero". ([#4455](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4455))
- `MerkleProof`: Use custom error to report invalid multiproof instead of reverting with overflow panic. ([#4564](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4564))
- `MessageHashUtils`: Added a new library for creating message digest to be used along with signing or recovery such as ECDSA or ERC-1271. These functions are moved from the `ECDSA` library. ([#4430](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4430))
- `Nonces`: Added a new contract to keep track of user nonces. Used for signatures in `ERC20Permit`, `ERC20Votes`, and `ERC721Votes`. ([#3816](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/3816))
- `ReentrancyGuard`, `Pausable`: Moved to `utils` directory. ([#4551](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4551))
- `Strings`: Renamed `toString(int256)` to `toStringSigned(int256)`. ([#4330](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4330))
- Optimized `Strings.equal` ([#4262](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/pull/4262))
```

}
```

#### Adapting Governor modules
Users working with Governor modules with overrides to the new internal interface will require extra attention when migrating to the new major version. Given that the considerations needed to be taken depend on the use case and the modules used, we recommend reaching out for support on [our community forum](https://forum.openzeppelin.com).

#### ECDSA and MessageHashUtils

The `ECDSA` library now only include functions for recovering the signer from a given signature. Previously it also included utility methods for producing digests to be used in signing or recovery. These utilities were moved to the `MessageHashUtils` library and should be imported if needed:

```diff
 import {ECDSA} from "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/cryptography/ECDSA.sol";
+import {MessageHashUtils} from "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/cryptography/MessageHashUtils.sol";

 contract Verifier {
   using ECDSA for bytes32;
+  using MessageHashUtils for bytes32;
 
   function _verify(bytes32 data, bytes memory signature, address account) internal pure returns (bool) {
     return data
       .toEthSignedMessageHash()
       .recover(signature) == account;
   }
 }
```

> #### Partial transpilation in upgradeable contracts
> 
> The upgradeable version of the contracts library used to include a variant suffixed with `Upgradeable` for every contract. These variants are produced via transpilation and mainly include changes for dealing with storage that don't apply to libraries and interfaces.
> 
> In favor of their original versions, the library no longer include upgradeable libraries and interfaces. Projects migrating to 5.0 should replace their library and interface imports with their corresponding non-upgradeable version:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Interfaces and libraries in upgradeable contracts

The upgradeable version of the contracts library used to include a variant suffixed with `Upgradeable` for every contract. These variants, which are produced automatically, mainly include changes for dealing with storage that don't apply to libraries and interfaces.

The upgradeable library no longer includes upgradeable variants for libraries and interfaces. Projects migrating to 5.0 should replace their library and interface imports with their corresponding non-upgradeable version:
```

```diff
 // Libraries
-import {AddressUpgradeable} from '@openzeppelin/contracts-upgradeable/utils/AddressUpgradeable.sol';
+import {Address} from '@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Address.sol';

 // Interfaces
-import {IERC20Upgradeable} from '@openzeppelin/contracts-upgradeable/interfaces/IERC20.sol';
+import {IERC20} from '@openzeppelin/contracts/interfaces/IERC20.sol';
```

#### Offchain Considerations

Some changes may affect offchain systems if they rely on assumptions that are changed along with these new breaking changes. These cases are:

##### Relying on revert strings for processing errors

> A concrete example is AccessControl, where it was advised to catch revert reasons using the following regex:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A concrete example is AccessControl, where it was previously advised to catch revert reasons using the following regex:
```

```
/^AccessControl: account (0x[0-9a-f]{40}) is missing role (0x[0-9a-f]{64})$/
```

> Instead, systems that interact with smart contracts outside of the network should take a look for any dependence on revert strings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, contracts now revert with custom errors. Systems that interact with smart contracts outside of the network should consider reliance on revert strings and possibly support the new custom errors.
```

##### Relying on storage locations for retrieving data

> After 5.0, both `TransparentUpgradeableProxy` and `BeaconProxy` use immutable variables to avoid unnecessary storage reads on every call. This means that both ERC1967's `BEACON_SLOT` and `ADMIN_SLOT` may no longer reflect the real value if its storage value differs from the immutable one.

Reviewer 2: Hm, I would remove this. It does not break with the contracts as we ship them, it requires modification, and that will be something that the developer implementing that modification will have to consider, and not the developer implementing a read from storage.
